docs/dao/proposals/5.1.mdx, before:

{/** @type {import('@/lib/mdxPageProps').MdxMetaProps} */}
export const meta = {
    description: 'Deploy a new version of the DNSSEC oracle and DNS registrar that enables \'gasless DNSSEC\' functionality.',
    emoji: '📖',
    contributors: [
        'arachnid'
    ],
    proposal: {
        discourse: '18535',
        // snapshot: '0x8e3c8812bd52d1760eb2bbf8dc603d68860741f80d489dc051017e863151a242',
        type: 'executable'
    }
};

# [EP5.1] [Executable] Upgrade DNSSEC support

## Abstract 

The ENS labs team has been working on a new version of the DNSSEC oracle and the DNS registrar that, combined with wildcard resolution (ENSIP 10) and CCIP-Read, allow for 'gasless DNSSEC' - enabling the use of DNS names inside ENS with no onchain transactions required. This proposal replaces the existing DNSSEC registrar with the new one.

Existing DNS names will continue to function as before, and names can still be imported using the 'legacy' method. The new registrar also allows configuring a name by setting a TXT record on _ens.name.tld, containing the address of a special resolver contract to use, followed by any resolver-specific data. Resolvers designed for the purpose can be configured to parse this extra data, making configuration entirely offchain a possibility.

Alongside the new registrar and oracle contracts, a simple resolver is provided that reads the Ethereum address to resolve a name to from the extra data.

Post-execution, ENS Labs will run a process to upgrade all current DNS TLDs to use the new registrar. TLDs will only function with the new registrar once this (permissionless) transaction is sent for the TLD.

## Specification 

Call `setController` on the Root contract at `root.ens.eth`, passing in the address of the new DNS registrar (`0xb32cb5677a7c971689228ec835800432b339ba2b`).

## Transactions 

| Address                                    | Value | Function      | Argument | Value                                      |
| ------------------------------------------ | ----- | ------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| 0xaB528d626EC275E3faD363fF1393A41F581c5897 | 0 ETH | setController |          | 0xB32cB5677a7C971689228EC835800432B339bA2B |
|                                            |       |               |          | true                                       |

Commit message:

Add status and forum link to term 5-6 proposals (#386)

docs/dao/proposals/5.1.mdx, after:

export const meta = {
  description:
    "Deploy a new version of the DNSSEC oracle and DNS registrar that enables 'gasless DNSSEC' functionality.",
  emoji: '📖',
  contributors: ['arachnid'],
  proposal: {
    discourse: '18535',
    type: 'executable',
    tally:
      '4208408830555077285685632645423534041634535116286721240943655761928631543220',
  },
}

# [EP5.1] [Executable] Upgrade DNSSEC support

| **Status**            | Passed                                                                                                                   |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Discussion Thread** | [Forum](https://discuss.ens.domains/t/ep5-1-executable-upgrade-dnssec-support/18535)                                     |
| **Votes**             | [Agora](https://agora.ensdao.org/proposals/4208408830555077285685632645423534041634535116286721240943655761928631543220) |

## Abstract

The ENS labs team has been working on a new version of the DNSSEC oracle and the DNS registrar that, combined with wildcard resolution (ENSIP 10) and CCIP-Read, allow for 'gasless DNSSEC' - enabling the use of DNS names inside ENS with no onchain transactions required. This proposal replaces the existing DNSSEC registrar with the new one.

Existing DNS names will continue to function as before, and names can still be imported using the 'legacy' method. The new registrar also allows configuring a name by setting a TXT record on \_ens.name.tld, containing the address of a special resolver contract to use, followed by any resolver-specific data. Resolvers designed for the purpose can be configured to parse this extra data, making configuration entirely offchain a possibility.

Alongside the new registrar and oracle contracts, a simple resolver is provided that reads the Ethereum address to resolve a name to from the extra data.

Post-execution, ENS Labs will run a process to upgrade all current DNS TLDs to use the new registrar. TLDs will only function with the new registrar once this (permissionless) transaction is sent for the TLD.

## Specification

Call `setController` on the Root contract at `root.ens.eth`, passing in the address of the new DNS registrar (`0xb32cb5677a7c971689228ec835800432b339ba2b`).

## Transactions

| Address                                    | Value | Function      | Argument | Value                                      |
| ------------------------------------------ | ----- | ------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| 0xaB528d626EC275E3faD363fF1393A41F581c5897 | 0 ETH | setController |          | 0xB32cB5677a7C971689228EC835800432B339bA2B |
|                                            |       |               |          | true                                       |
