docs/dao/proposals/5.11.mdx, before:

{/** @type {import('@/lib/mdxPageProps').MdxMetaProps} */}
export const meta = {
    description: 'This proposal funds the Meta-Governance Working Group with 374k USDC and 150k ENS to support DAO-wide operations, including Working Groups, treasury management, and governance initiatives, as specified in EP 5.9 and amended by EP 5.8.',
    emoji: '📖',
    contributors: [
        'avsa.eth'
    ],
    proposal: {
        tally: '76312276134880424811339391717815330375652916610982980144903695563372140531115',
        type: 'executable'
    }
};

# [EP5.11] [Executable] Fund the Meta-Governance Working Group (Term 5)

## Abstract 

Meta-Governance is seeking funding to support DAO-wide operations, including Working Groups, treasury management, and governance initiatives. This request aligns with Rule 10.1.1 of the [Working Group Rules](https://docs.ens.domains/dao/wg/rules) and amendments introduced in [EP 4.8](https://docs.ens.domains/dao/proposals/4.8).  This proposal will execute the funding specification according to [EP 5.9](https://snapshot.org/#/ens.eth/proposal/0x66d355555c24ed0d2fed0aee89e4fe009e2925c84144c4edc707d33e7c19e554), as amended by [EP 5.8](https://snapshot.org/#/ens.eth/proposal/0x1f328fd1fda5f3cabfdace3e521403def7ad41b0b0582e27334c135cd23c511d).

## Motivation

### [EP 5.9 — Funding Request: ENS Meta-Governance Working Group Term 5 ](https://discuss.ens.domains/t/4-4-2-social-funding-request-ens-meta-goverance-working-group/17994) 

The Meta-Governance Working Group requests funding of **374,000 USDC and 150,000 ENS** from the ENS DAO treasury ([wallet.ensdao.eth](https://etherscan.io/address/0xFe89cc7aBB2C4183683ab71653C4cdc9B02D44b7)). This funding will be used to support the governance processes of the ENS DAO and to manage and build infrastructure that supports the ENS DAO, its treasury, and its Working Groups.

## Specification 

The following transfers are to be made:

- Transfer 374,000 USDC to [main.mg.wg.ens.eth](https://etherscan.io/address/0x91c32893216dE3eA0a55ABb9851f581d4503d39b). 
- Transfer 150,000 ENS to [main.mg.wg.ens.eth](https://etherscan.io/address/0x91c32893216dE3eA0a55ABb9851f581d4503d39b).

Addresses for confirmation:
- 0x91c32893216de3ea0a55abb9851f581d4503d39b for main.mg.wg.ens.eth

Commit message:

Add status and forum link to term 5-6 proposals (#386)

docs/dao/proposals/5.11.mdx, after:

export const meta = {
  description:
    'This proposal funds the Meta-Governance Working Group with 374k USDC and 150k ENS to support DAO-wide operations, including Working Groups, treasury management, and governance initiatives, as specified in EP 5.9 and amended by EP 5.8.',
  emoji: '📖',
  contributors: ['avsa.eth'],
  proposal: {
    tally:
      '76312276134880424811339391717815330375652916610982980144903695563372140531115',
    type: 'executable',
  },
}

# [EP5.11] [Executable] Fund the Meta-Governance Working Group (Term 5)

| **Status**            | Passed                                                                                                                    |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Discussion Thread** | [Forum](https://discuss.ens.domains/t/ep5-11-executable-proposal-fund-the-meta-governance-working-group-term-5/19358)     |
| **Votes**             | [Agora](https://agora.ensdao.org/proposals/76312276134880424811339391717815330375652916610982980144903695563372140531115) |

## Abstract

Meta-Governance is seeking funding to support DAO-wide operations, including Working Groups, treasury management, and governance initiatives. This request aligns with Rule 10.1.1 of the [Working Group Rules](https://docs.ens.domains/dao/wg/rules) and amendments introduced in [EP 4.8](https://docs.ens.domains/dao/proposals/4.8). This proposal will execute the funding specification according to [EP 5.9](https://snapshot.org/#/ens.eth/proposal/0x66d355555c24ed0d2fed0aee89e4fe009e2925c84144c4edc707d33e7c19e554), as amended by [EP 5.8](https://snapshot.org/#/ens.eth/proposal/0x1f328fd1fda5f3cabfdace3e521403def7ad41b0b0582e27334c135cd23c511d).

## Motivation

### [EP 5.9 — Funding Request: ENS Meta-Governance Working Group Term 5 ](https://discuss.ens.domains/t/4-4-2-social-funding-request-ens-meta-goverance-working-group/17994)

The Meta-Governance Working Group requests funding of **374,000 USDC and 150,000 ENS** from the ENS DAO treasury ([wallet.ensdao.eth](https://etherscan.io/address/0xFe89cc7aBB2C4183683ab71653C4cdc9B02D44b7)). This funding will be used to support the governance processes of the ENS DAO and to manage and build infrastructure that supports the ENS DAO, its treasury, and its Working Groups.

## Specification

The following transfers are to be made:

- Transfer 374,000 USDC to [main.mg.wg.ens.eth](https://etherscan.io/address/0x91c32893216dE3eA0a55ABb9851f581d4503d39b).
- Transfer 150,000 ENS to [main.mg.wg.ens.eth](https://etherscan.io/address/0x91c32893216dE3eA0a55ABb9851f581d4503d39b).

Addresses for confirmation:

- 0x91c32893216de3ea0a55abb9851f581d4503d39b for main.mg.wg.ens.eth
