docs/dao/proposals/5.29.mdx, before:

export const meta = {
    description:
        "Fund Unruggable to build and operate a network of gateways supporting the rollout of ENSIP 19.",
    emoji: "📖",
    contributors: ["brantly.eth"],
    proposal: {
        tally: "13214174724111749338017943143826453367599509196993220699255450633508989705578",
        type: "executable",
    },
};

# [EP 5.29] Funding request for Unruggable to build and operate a network of gateways supporting the rollout of ENSIP-19: EVM-chain Reverse Resolution

[Temp Check Discourse link](https://discuss.ens.domains/t/temp-check-ep-x-x-funding-request-for-unruggable-to-build-and-operate-a-network-of-gateways-supporting-the-rollout-of-ensip-19-evm-chain-reverse-resolution/19902)

## Summary

We are requesting funding from the ENS DAO to build a production network of gateways. These gateways will support the rollout of reverse resolution for **Arbitrum, Base, Linea, Optimism, and Scroll.** We also plan to continue our research and development on the ENS protocol and actively contribute to the ENS ecosystem with a focus on resolving names from L2s. Our funding request focuses on infrastructure, talent acquisition and retention, and ongoing development to sustain this critical ENS infrastructure.

## Request

We are requesting **$1,200,000 USDC annually and 24,000 ENS tokens (vested over 2 years with a one year cliff).**

This request gives consideration to the feedback on our [Temp Check](https://discuss.ens.domains/t/temp-check-ep-x-x-funding-request-for-unruggable-to-build-and-operate-a-network-of-gateways-supporting-the-rollout-of-ensip-19-evm-chain-reverse-resolution/19902) on the ENS DAO forum.

## Executable Code

This proposal constitutes two streams:

-   A stream of **$1,200,000 USDC** **per year** (12 months).
-   A stream of **24,000 ENS** tokens over **2 years** (24 months) with a **1 year cliff** (12 months).

![hedgey-vesting-graph.png](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/unruggable-labs/unruggable-stream/9af745ca74b3daf3b87f55014c7f4e4e307c4ffb/images/hedgey-stream-graph.png)

Both streams are controlled directly by the ENS DAO Wallet. They can be cancelled at any time with a DAO vote should Unruggable not fulfil their promises.

This calldata has been generated using thIs codebase: [](https://github.com/unruggable-labs/unruggable-stream/tree/dce44e0fc3a461f4f250c436101231e553829e03)[https://github.com/unruggable-labs/unruggable-stream/tree/3d3c49980defbab315b6e09385b22946dd9729b0](https://github.com/unruggable-labs/unruggable-stream/tree/3d3c49980defbab315b6e09385b22946dd9729b0), which generates and simulates execution of the below listed transactions.

Tenderly simulation links are listed below.

### Stream 1 - $1,200,000 USDC.

**Platform:** [Superfluid](https://www.superfluid.finance/).

Superfluid is a tried and tested platform for streaming funds. It has been used for nearly a year now for [**[EP5.2] [Executable] Commence Streams for Service Providers.**](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/ens/proposal/63865530602418424570813160277709124551851041237648860550576561576702951975816)

Initialising the Superfluid stream involves **4 transactions**:

| Description                                                                                                                             | Target Name | Target Address                                                                                                        | Function Signature                                                                           | Function Arguments                                                                                                | Calldata [1]                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Simulation                                                                               |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| This function approves the Super USDCx contract to spend $100,000 of USDC on behalf of the sender, the ENS DAO wallet.                  | USDC        | [0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48](https://etherscan.io/address/0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48) | `function approve(address spender, uint256 amount) external returns (bool)`                  | `["0x1BA8603DA702602A8657980e825A6DAa03Dee93a", 100000000000]`                                                    | `0x095ea7b30000000000000000000000001ba8603da702602a8657980e825a6daa03dee93a000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000174876e800`                                                                 | [Simulation](https://www.tdly.co/shared/simulation/7a33ba80-767d-4764-891f-b93690ad7b25) |
| This function 'upgrades' $100,000 USDC from the ENS DAO wallet/'Timelock' to USDCx.                                                     | USDCx       | [0x1BA8603DA702602A8657980e825A6DAa03Dee93a](https://etherscan.io/address/0x1BA8603DA702602A8657980e825A6DAa03Dee93a) | `function upgrade(uint256 amount)`                                                           | `[100000000000]`                                                                                                  | `0x45977d03000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000174876e800`                                                                                                                                 | [Simulation](https://www.tdly.co/shared/simulation/d564e4b9-3c5d-4e90-91f7-9ae78e32fbd1) |
| This function sets up the stream to the Unruggable multisig wallet. [2]                                                                 | Superfluid  | [0xcfA132E353cB4E398080B9700609bb008eceB125](https://etherscan.io/address/0xcfA132E353cB4E398080B9700609bb008eceB125) | `function setFlowrate(address tokenAddress, address receiverAddress, int96 amountPerSecond)` | `["0x1BA8603DA702602A8657980e825A6DAa03Dee93a", "0x64Ca550F78d6Cc711B247319CC71A04A166707Ab", 38026517538495352]` | `0x57e6aa360000000000000000000000001ba8603da702602a8657980e825a6daa03dee93a00000000000000000000000064ca550f78d6cc711b247319cc71a04a166707ab000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000008718ea8ded5b78` | [Simulation](https://www.tdly.co/shared/simulation/725d872b-8174-4fa5-a60b-5d45eea1812f) |
| This function increases the amount of USDC (owned by the ENS DAO wallet/Timelock) that the Autowrap strategy contract is able to spend. | USDC        | [0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48](https://etherscan.io/address/0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48) | `function increaseAllowance(address spender, uint256 increment)`                             | `["0x1D65c6d3AD39d454Ea8F682c49aE7744706eA96d", 1100000000000]`                                                   | `0x395093510000000000000000000000001d65c6d3ad39d454ea8f682c49ae7744706ea96d000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000001001d1bf800`                                                                 | [Simulation](https://www.tdly.co/shared/simulation/d94d705b-0025-4500-b5d0-e4eba5221abe) |

### Stream 2 - 24,000 ENS

Platform: [Hedgey](https://hedgey.finance/)

Hedgey has been utilised by the ENS DAO for allocating delegateable ENS tokens to deserving ecosystem participants.

Initialising the Hedgey stream involves **2 transactions**:

| Description                                                                       | Target Name          | Target Address                                                                                                        | Function Signature                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Function Arguments                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Calldata [1]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Simulation                                                                               |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Approve the `BatchPlanner` to spend 24,000 ENS tokens owned by the ENS DAO Wallet | ENS Token            | [0xC18360217D8F7Ab5e7c516566761Ea12Ce7F9D72](https://etherscan.io/address/0xC18360217D8F7Ab5e7c516566761Ea12Ce7F9D72) | `function approve(address spender, uint256 amount) external returns (bool)`                                                                                                                                                                     | `[ "0x3466EB008EDD8d5052446293D1a7D212cb65C646", 24000000000000000000000 ]`                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | `0x095ea7b30000000000000000000000003466eb008edd8d5052446293d1a7d212cb65c6460000000000000000000000000000000000000000000005150ae84a8cdf000000`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | [Simulation](https://www.tdly.co/shared/simulation/82838efa-2dda-4660-abf7-991f2787388a) |
| Create the Vesting Plan. Tokens vested over 24 months, with a 12 month cliff. [3] | Hedgey Batch Planner | [0x3466EB008EDD8d5052446293D1a7D212cb65C646](https://etherscan.io/address/0x3466EB008EDD8d5052446293D1a7D212cb65C646) | `function batchVestingPlans(address locker, address token, uint256 totalAmount,(address recipient, uint256 amount, uint256 start, uint256 cliff, uint256 rate)[], uint256 period, address vestingAdmin, bool adminTransferOBO, uint8 mintType)` | `["0x1bb64AF7FE05fc69c740609267d2AbE3e119Ef82", "0xC18360217D8F7Ab5e7c516566761Ea12Ce7F9D72", 24000000000000000000000, [["0x64Ca550F78d6Cc711B247319CC71A04A166707Ab", 24000000000000000000000, 1735065935, 1766601935, 380517503805175]], 1, "0xFe89cc7aBB2C4183683ab71653C4cdc9B02D44b7", true, 4]` | `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` | [Simulation](https://www.tdly.co/shared/simulation/d33f9323-8ec0-4402-a458-265b7fa546f7) |

[1] You can deep dive into this calldata at the following link: [https://ethtools.com/calldata-collections/unruggable-executable-proposal](https://ethtools.com/calldata-collections/unruggable-executable-proposal)

[2] `38026517538495352` represents $0.038.. USDC per second noting that USDC has 18 decimals and there are `31556926` seconds in a year.

[3] `period`, and `mintType` arguments are taken from the Hedgey documentation: [https://hedgey.gitbook.io/hedgey-community-docs/for-developers/technical-documentation/token-vesting/integration-and-direct-contract-interactions](https://hedgey.gitbook.io/hedgey-community-docs/for-developers/technical-documentation/token-vesting/integration-and-direct-contract-interactions)

Commit message:

Add status and forum link to term 5-6 proposals (#386)

docs/dao/proposals/5.29.mdx, after:

export const meta = {
  description:
    'Fund Unruggable to build and operate a network of gateways supporting the rollout of ENSIP 19.',
  emoji: '📖',
  contributors: ['brantly.eth'],
  proposal: {
    tally:
      '13214174724111749338017943143826453367599509196993220699255450633508989705578',
    type: 'executable',
  },
}

# [EP 5.29] Funding request for Unruggable to build and operate a network of gateways supporting the rollout of ENSIP-19: EVM-chain Reverse Resolution

| **Status**            | Rejected                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Discussion Thread** | [Forum](https://discuss.ens.domains/t/temp-check-ep-5-29-funding-request-for-unruggable-to-build-and-operate-a-network-of-gateways-supporting-the-rollout-of-ensip-19-evm-chain-reverse-resolution/19902) |
| **Votes**             | [Agora](https://agora.ensdao.org/proposals/13214174724111749338017943143826453367599509196993220699255450633508989705578)                                                                                 |

## Summary

We are requesting funding from the ENS DAO to build a production network of gateways. These gateways will support the rollout of reverse resolution for **Arbitrum, Base, Linea, Optimism, and Scroll.** We also plan to continue our research and development on the ENS protocol and actively contribute to the ENS ecosystem with a focus on resolving names from L2s. Our funding request focuses on infrastructure, talent acquisition and retention, and ongoing development to sustain this critical ENS infrastructure.

## Request

We are requesting **$1,200,000 USDC annually and 24,000 ENS tokens (vested over 2 years with a one year cliff).**

This request gives consideration to the feedback on our [Temp Check](https://discuss.ens.domains/t/temp-check-ep-x-x-funding-request-for-unruggable-to-build-and-operate-a-network-of-gateways-supporting-the-rollout-of-ensip-19-evm-chain-reverse-resolution/19902) on the ENS DAO forum.

## Executable Code

This proposal constitutes two streams:

- A stream of **$1,200,000 USDC** **per year** (12 months).
- A stream of **24,000 ENS** tokens over **2 years** (24 months) with a **1 year cliff** (12 months).

![hedgey-vesting-graph.png](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/unruggable-labs/unruggable-stream/9af745ca74b3daf3b87f55014c7f4e4e307c4ffb/images/hedgey-stream-graph.png)

Both streams are controlled directly by the ENS DAO Wallet. They can be cancelled at any time with a DAO vote should Unruggable not fulfil their promises.

This calldata has been generated using thIs codebase: [](https://github.com/unruggable-labs/unruggable-stream/tree/dce44e0fc3a461f4f250c436101231e553829e03)[https://github.com/unruggable-labs/unruggable-stream/tree/3d3c49980defbab315b6e09385b22946dd9729b0](https://github.com/unruggable-labs/unruggable-stream/tree/3d3c49980defbab315b6e09385b22946dd9729b0), which generates and simulates execution of the below listed transactions.

Tenderly simulation links are listed below.

### Stream 1 - $1,200,000 USDC.

**Platform:** [Superfluid](https://www.superfluid.finance/).

Superfluid is a tried and tested platform for streaming funds. It has been used for nearly a year now for [**[EP5.2] [Executable] Commence Streams for Service Providers.**](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/ens/proposal/63865530602418424570813160277709124551851041237648860550576561576702951975816)

Initialising the Superfluid stream involves **4 transactions**:

| Description                                                                                                                             | Target Name | Target Address                                                                                                        | Function Signature                                                                           | Function Arguments                                                                                                | Calldata [1]                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Simulation                                                                               |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| This function approves the Super USDCx contract to spend $100,000 of USDC on behalf of the sender, the ENS DAO wallet.                  | USDC        | [0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48](https://etherscan.io/address/0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48) | `function approve(address spender, uint256 amount) external returns (bool)`                  | `["0x1BA8603DA702602A8657980e825A6DAa03Dee93a", 100000000000]`                                                    | `0x095ea7b30000000000000000000000001ba8603da702602a8657980e825a6daa03dee93a000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000174876e800`                                                                 | [Simulation](https://www.tdly.co/shared/simulation/7a33ba80-767d-4764-891f-b93690ad7b25) |
| This function 'upgrades' $100,000 USDC from the ENS DAO wallet/'Timelock' to USDCx.                                                     | USDCx       | [0x1BA8603DA702602A8657980e825A6DAa03Dee93a](https://etherscan.io/address/0x1BA8603DA702602A8657980e825A6DAa03Dee93a) | `function upgrade(uint256 amount)`                                                           | `[100000000000]`                                                                                                  | `0x45977d03000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000174876e800`                                                                                                                                 | [Simulation](https://www.tdly.co/shared/simulation/d564e4b9-3c5d-4e90-91f7-9ae78e32fbd1) |
| This function sets up the stream to the Unruggable multisig wallet. [2]                                                                 | Superfluid  | [0xcfA132E353cB4E398080B9700609bb008eceB125](https://etherscan.io/address/0xcfA132E353cB4E398080B9700609bb008eceB125) | `function setFlowrate(address tokenAddress, address receiverAddress, int96 amountPerSecond)` | `["0x1BA8603DA702602A8657980e825A6DAa03Dee93a", "0x64Ca550F78d6Cc711B247319CC71A04A166707Ab", 38026517538495352]` | `0x57e6aa360000000000000000000000001ba8603da702602a8657980e825a6daa03dee93a00000000000000000000000064ca550f78d6cc711b247319cc71a04a166707ab000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000008718ea8ded5b78` | [Simulation](https://www.tdly.co/shared/simulation/725d872b-8174-4fa5-a60b-5d45eea1812f) |
| This function increases the amount of USDC (owned by the ENS DAO wallet/Timelock) that the Autowrap strategy contract is able to spend. | USDC        | [0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48](https://etherscan.io/address/0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48) | `function increaseAllowance(address spender, uint256 increment)`                             | `["0x1D65c6d3AD39d454Ea8F682c49aE7744706eA96d", 1100000000000]`                                                   | `0x395093510000000000000000000000001d65c6d3ad39d454ea8f682c49ae7744706ea96d000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000001001d1bf800`                                                                 | [Simulation](https://www.tdly.co/shared/simulation/d94d705b-0025-4500-b5d0-e4eba5221abe) |

### Stream 2 - 24,000 ENS

Platform: [Hedgey](https://hedgey.finance/)

Hedgey has been utilised by the ENS DAO for allocating delegateable ENS tokens to deserving ecosystem participants.

Initialising the Hedgey stream involves **2 transactions**:

| Description                                                                       | Target Name          | Target Address                                                                                                        | Function Signature                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Function Arguments                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Calldata [1]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Simulation                                                                               |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Approve the `BatchPlanner` to spend 24,000 ENS tokens owned by the ENS DAO Wallet | ENS Token            | [0xC18360217D8F7Ab5e7c516566761Ea12Ce7F9D72](https://etherscan.io/address/0xC18360217D8F7Ab5e7c516566761Ea12Ce7F9D72) | `function approve(address spender, uint256 amount) external returns (bool)`                                                                                                                                                                     | `[ "0x3466EB008EDD8d5052446293D1a7D212cb65C646", 24000000000000000000000 ]`                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | `0x095ea7b30000000000000000000000003466eb008edd8d5052446293d1a7d212cb65c6460000000000000000000000000000000000000000000005150ae84a8cdf000000`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | [Simulation](https://www.tdly.co/shared/simulation/82838efa-2dda-4660-abf7-991f2787388a) |
| Create the Vesting Plan. Tokens vested over 24 months, with a 12 month cliff. [3] | Hedgey Batch Planner | [0x3466EB008EDD8d5052446293D1a7D212cb65C646](https://etherscan.io/address/0x3466EB008EDD8d5052446293D1a7D212cb65C646) | `function batchVestingPlans(address locker, address token, uint256 totalAmount,(address recipient, uint256 amount, uint256 start, uint256 cliff, uint256 rate)[], uint256 period, address vestingAdmin, bool adminTransferOBO, uint8 mintType)` | `["0x1bb64AF7FE05fc69c740609267d2AbE3e119Ef82", "0xC18360217D8F7Ab5e7c516566761Ea12Ce7F9D72", 24000000000000000000000, [["0x64Ca550F78d6Cc711B247319CC71A04A166707Ab", 24000000000000000000000, 1735065935, 1766601935, 380517503805175]], 1, "0xFe89cc7aBB2C4183683ab71653C4cdc9B02D44b7", true, 4]` | `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` | [Simulation](https://www.tdly.co/shared/simulation/d33f9323-8ec0-4402-a458-265b7fa546f7) |

[1] You can deep dive into this calldata at the following link: [https://ethtools.com/calldata-collections/unruggable-executable-proposal](https://ethtools.com/calldata-collections/unruggable-executable-proposal)

[2] `38026517538495352` represents $0.038.. USDC per second noting that USDC has 18 decimals and there are `31556926` seconds in a year.

[3] `period`, and `mintType` arguments are taken from the Hedgey documentation: [https://hedgey.gitbook.io/hedgey-community-docs/for-developers/technical-documentation/token-vesting/integration-and-direct-contract-interactions](https://hedgey.gitbook.io/hedgey-community-docs/for-developers/technical-documentation/token-vesting/integration-and-direct-contract-interactions)
