contract-api-reference/subgraph/subgraphdata.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Subgraph Data Introduction
---

# ENS Subgraph Introduction

ENS has a GraphQL API Endpoint hosted by [The Graph](https://thegraph.com/docs/about/introduction#what-the-graph-is) called a subgraph for indexing and organizing data from the ENS smart contracts.

This subgraph can be used to query ENS data.

Subgraph information is serviced by a decentralized group of server operators called Indexers.

## GraphQL Schema

The schema of GraphQL elements available is defined in [`/schema.graphql` ](https://github.com/ensdomains/ens-subgraph/blob/master/schema.graphql)

## Ethereum Mainnet

[Creating an API Key Video Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UrfIpm-Vlgs)

- [Explorer Page](https://thegraph.com/hosted-service/subgraph/ensdomains/ens)
- Graphql Endpoint: https://gateway.thegraph.com/api/[api-key]/subgraphs/id/QmcqvocMfm9LDSEDYmeexzeGt1QTY7T7AVitX9mG2qkvjR
- [Code Repo](https://github.com/ensdomains/ens-subgraph)

## Helpful Links

[Querying from an Application](https://thegraph.com/docs/en/developer/querying-from-your-app/)

[Managing your API Key & Setting your indexer preferences](https://thegraph.com/docs/en/studio/managing-api-keys/)

Commit message:

Added descriptions, additional subgraph info and results to queries

contract-api-reference/subgraph/subgraphdata.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Subgraph Data Introduction
---

# ENS Subgraph Introduction

ENS has a GraphQL API Endpoint hosted by [The Graph](https://thegraph.com/docs/about/introduction#what-the-graph-is) called a subgraph for indexing and organizing data from the ENS smart contracts.

This subgraph can be used to query ENS data.

Subgraph information is serviced by a decentralized group of server operators called Indexers.

## GraphQL Schema

The schema of GraphQL elements available is defined in [`/schema.graphql` ](https://github.com/ensdomains/ens-subgraph/blob/master/schema.graphql)

## Ethereum Mainnet

- [Explorer Page](https://thegraph.com/hosted-service/subgraph/ensdomains/ens)
- Graphql Endpoint: https://gateway.thegraph.com/api/[api-key]/subgraphs/id/QmcqvocMfm9LDSEDYmeexzeGt1QTY7T7AVitX9mG2qkvjR
- [Code Repo](https://github.com/ensdomains/ens-subgraph)

## Helpful Resources

- [Video Tutorial on creating an API Key](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UrfIpm-Vlgs)
- [Managing your API Key & setting your indexer preferences](https://thegraph.com/docs/en/studio/managing-api-keys/)
- [Querying from an application](https://thegraph.com/docs/en/developer/querying-from-your-app/)
- [How to use the explorer and playground to query on-chain data](https://medium.com/@chidubem_/how-to-query-on-chain-data-with-the-graph-f8507488215)
- [Deploy your own subgraph](https://thegraph.com/docs/en/developing/creating-a-subgraph/)
- [New to GraphQL? - Read Here](https://graphql.org/learn/)
